Luke Porter                                                                                                                                                     20190710 
Project 2 
 
#Customer Needs Statement 
 
With software these days, uniqueness is always appreciated in the industry. Although this project will not be an asynchronously implemented solution where multi-threading could allow for future implementation of plug-ins and add-ons, it very well could be. In the short time we have together, my customers need something better than what we have already. The goal is to have a minimal viable product that will be well built with good coding habits. I am going to try and best describe to the developer exactly what this program will do. Let me start by saying that this is meant to be a store that sells software. 
 
The nuts and bolts of this project would be to first implement a simple login solution. The project will be a full web app hosted on Microsoft Azure. All of the features mentioned in this in-depth explanation will be attached to various forms and buttons. This can be accomplished with NuGet packages. I would prefer to use Active Directory Authentication, ADAL for short, which will also take some time to learn. This ADAL will use something called IsInRole() to decide if this user can view things, or not view things, and in unison with what the user can and cannot do. ADAL handling the login and security process will take up a significant amount of complexity out of the project. After the user is logged in, there will be various decision statements, if and else, to decide what the user will see and what the user can do. Note that the admin account is being pulled directly from the database. When the owner logs in as an admin, the owner will be able to add or remove products from the software store. Users will be able to subscribe to various products and they will also be able to download individual products. All users based on the IsInRole() will see a set of unique switch statements and visually see certain buttons all at start of the program. In other words, the user will be added to a certain subscription permission levels, thanks to the IsInRole(). This should ease in the reading process. Now on to discuss the details of products and the checkout process. 
 
On the store side of things, there are many features specific to software. The software product classes will have subcategories whether they are able to be a part of a subscription, or a particular subscription, or whether it is its own product. Maybe, a new software product the developer wants to promote on its own would not be a part of a subscription. The shopping cart, which may in the future support physical products, will at this time only support software products. The reason being is physically sold products should be treated much differently. The store would want some physical products to promote their brand. If time permits it would be preferred to add this feature. The shopping cart will display the top text of whatever product is going to be bought, or you can also change this option to the most expensive item in the cart to remind the user what they want most. With this also, a total value will be dynamically adjusted. Users should always want to know the exact price. Lastly, we have the shopping cart and checkout page. The checkout class is activated from the Shopping cart location. There will be a payment options provided by Paypal and its NuGet Package and all payments will be hosted through by Paypal. The final topic of discussion is what is happening on the backend. 
 
The backend differs notably from what the user actually sees, and what happens behind the scenes. This is a little more technical in nature but worth noting for monetary reasons. The security will hopefully be handled by Microsoft through Active Directory and not a simplified login NuGet Package. The most notable feature of this program will be the “ApplicationSaveState” feature, this will allow data to be saved incase the program breaks unexpectedly. This is accomplished through a System operation and allows the program to save the features before it is allowed to terminate entirely. It will be a neat feature. It will also allow a periodic save feature that is set on a certain number of users added with a hash compare. It will use a publish and subscribe delegates methodology to have various tasks active with flags from the System operation. At initialization of the app, the first thing it will do is check the ApplicationSaveState object in memory at the database. Other features include database data will be prepared with the DatabaseManager object. This will ensure that all rules are followed to write to the database and all data is parsed beforehand in a certain format. There will also be a FileManager class that will have similar features of the DatabaseManager only with local files. This will complete the project. 
 
These are the high-level blueprints other than the backend discussion previously mentioned. This was thanks to a suggestion by a colleague of mine. This is exactly what I will need from the get-go. I want this program built by one person, who can have a deep understanding of the product so he/she can build rapidly to this product as needed. I also only want one person to handle all of the security solely. Features from here can be added and subtracted as needs change. The base application will include all of these interesting features. 